Hello everyone and welcome to this project and this project we're going to build a very simple what
we call a guessing game.
So we're going to ask the computers to generate a random number whatever that number is from one to
let's say 50.
Okay.
And then we're going to ask the users to enter a number.
And if that number matches the computer guess we're just going to print to the screen say Okay you guessed
that right.
If not then we're going to start to guide the user to either increase the number or decrease the number
to actually get closer to the to the random number that has been generated by the computer.
It's very very simple game but we're just going to teach you a lot of concepts about how to generate
around the number how to outline.
IF ELSE condition and so on and so forth.
All right.
Let's get started.
So first of all as we'll mention one originate a random number okay.
So first we're going to import random and then the next step that we're going to generate mainly a random
number which is going to be an integer number from one to let's say fifty one to 49.
So we were going to specify random dot rent it for rent integer and the word specify the range.
Any number from one to let's say 49.
OK.
And we're going to put whatever generated numbers we're going to put it in it true.
And that would be kind of the computer gets that the input of the user input will try to match somehow.
Right.
So let's run the first two cells so there's the first cells again you press shift and turn on the next
step of going to again press shift into to run the next cell.
And then now have a total number.
All right.
Let's let's see what that tool number is first.
So if we again press a that will create in you you send for us.
And then we're going to let's say a plot or two number of let's run it and the actual number of the
guess has been 43.
If you actually want to run it again you need maybe like seven hundred again generally thirty nine and
so on and so forth.
And that's the whole idea is just off with the Asking the computer to generate them around the number
for us.
And they were going to ask the user to try to feed or input.
No.
Okay.
So how can we ask users to actually feed numbers to us.
So as we covered earlier in previous sections there were going to use the input function and then were
going to write whatever we want to be prompted to the user as an input.
So were going to press or write inputs.
Right.
And then years between Abraham and prespecified is trained and then would get to be kind of the message
they were going to be prompted to use.
So if we put input into your guess between 1 and 49 for instance or whatever whatever message you want
it.
Okay.
And then what's going to happen is the user going to feel that input.
So the point is here is that the program will halt.
We're not going to continue until we actually input the value.
Okay.
And then once the input was the user input value you can assume it's an integral casted to become an
integer.
All right.
And then that will be my guess.
No.
So now we have two numbers.
I have my two number which is the guest number by the computer and then we have the what we call it
the guest number which of the input came from the user and then we tried to compare these two areas.
So just very very simple exercise.
But again it's just you know kind of the first project we're going to go into a little way more complex
products moving forward with us to go again kind of a warm up.
That's Let's run it.
So once we're not going to say okay this is the message you specify enter your guess between 1 and 14.
Okay.
So let's assume that I don't know that the actual number is 45 in this case.
Let's assume let's say 30 or eight minutes press enter.
All right.
And then you'll see that other cells has been has been.
Okay.
So no my total number is 44.
My guess number to 30.
So the idea is here we wanted to compare simply the two Okay actually let's say sure the numbers are
going to 30.
You know our 2 number is 44.
Now we wanted to compare.
Right.
So just to perform a comparison and events and before and more on a platform we use if condition.
Okay.
So first of all if the user is lucky and he insert the number that matches that the computer guess then
we're going to print okay.
Now you're looking good.
You know you're right.
So I'm going to say here if condition if our guess number equals equals which means that's when you're
actually performing if condition or or check for equality equals two to no.
Right.
Okay.
They are going to print.
You're right.
Good job or whatever you want to print.
Right.
And then once you're right then what you need to do is they actually need to break what we call the
weight loop.
It's happening.
So the whole idea is we're going to write kind of different if conditions.
OK and I'm going to put all of them in a while loop.
OK.
The whole idea is one of the problem to be running all the time until the user gets it right.
Okay so we are only going to break that loop.
Okay.
We're going to break.
We're just simply in a break our way loop only if the user feeds the number.
Right.
Right so here is just to give an idea of the way you look so here we have wave two which means all the
time why one which means all the time we're going to be running that loop.
OK I'm to actually break it.
All right.
OK.
Which again we're going to break it only if our guest number is equal.
That's or not all right.
And then the next step is if our guest number is less then the total number then would total guide the
user somehow will.
Okay your guess is low.
Try again.
Try to kind of you know like a high number or.
And then we're going to feed another input and so on and so forth.
Okay.
The next step is if the guest number is greater than the total number then we're going to assume that
again we're going to go him.
We haven't mentioned.
Your guess is high.
Try again.
So the user would have tried to input a smaller number.
OK.
All right.
Let's walk you through it so that's our condition.
If the user finds it feeds it right the next step is as guest number is less than our number.
OK.
So if the guest number is less than our two number which is our case here they are going to say okay
your guess is low.
Try again.
And then use it will get XP expecting the users to actually feel that it puts it away.
So you're are going to say okay so input into your guess between Again one and 49 or eight.
And they're going to again specify as an integer and they'll be my new guess number.
So going to override the previous guest number which is usable 30 by let's say Whatever inputs were
going to be those are going to get it right.
And then else if if our gas number is greater than the total number giving and say okay print.
Your guess is high.
Try again.
And then afterwards we're going to again as these are input another number simply put we're going to
do a wide loop asking the user to give us whatever number if it's smaller or it's great but if it's
equal we're just going to break that up.
In a nutshell.
Right.
OK.
So let's start at the let's see what's going to happen if we've done it.
I'm going to say okay because I would guess number 30 I'm going to number is 44.
Then one guess.
Okay.
Your guess is low.
Try again which means we didn't execute this.
We did not execute it.
We did not execute this.
We only executed that portion which is you know the part of the else here.
Okay.
So let's assume and do guess as locy Assuming a you know increase the number somehow.
So let's assume they're going to write 35 press enter.
When I say okay your guess is low again.
Try again.
Why.
Because it didn't reach it again.
We did it executed this portion.
We didn't execute that portion.
You only executed this portion or let's try again make it 40 and I say again you would get a steal though.
Let's try for three.
But again your guess is still low.
And if you want to try 44 that's what you actually say okay.
Now your guess number matches the true number and then you see on Google right.
Good job.
And simply you break the loop and that's why you see here you are not running the loop anymore.
And that's pretty much it very simple.
Again a guessing game.
You can have it look a little bit more advanced by adding for example different bounds.
They'll say okay you a little bit closer to the true number of giffin Giving covering more hints for
instance and there's a lot of additions that you can add to the game.
But again this is a very simple guessing game.
I hope you guys enjoyed it and see you in the next project.